Detailed PX4 CI documentation (#2284)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/test_and_ci/continous_integration.md

# PX4 Continuous Integration

PX4 uses continuous integration (CI) to build and run tests against every pull request (PR) and release, and to generate build artifacts such as firmware, documentation updates, and various metadata files needed by QGroundControl.

The integration system uses GitHub actions and a Jenkins server.
The configuration files for these systems can be found in the [PX4-Autopilot](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot) repo main branch:
- [Jenkinsfile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/Jenkinsfile)
- [.github/workflows/](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/tree/main/.github/workflows).

> The Jenkins build status can be viewed in [ci.px4.io:8080/job/PX4/](http://ci.px4.io:8080/job/PX4/)

Author: Very nice to add this!

# PX4 Continuous Integration

PX4 uses continuous integration (CI) to build and run tests against every pull request (PR) and release, and to generate build artifacts such as firmware, documentation updates, and various metadata files needed by QGroundControl.

The integration system uses GitHub actions and a Jenkins server.
The configuration files for these systems can be found in the [PX4-Autopilot](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot) repo main branch:
- [Jenkinsfile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/Jenkinsfile)
- [.github/workflows/](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/tree/main/.github/workflows).

> The Jenkins build status can be viewed in [ci.px4.io:8080/job/PX4/](http://ci.px4.io:8080/job/PX4/)

Author: I just discovered that there's 2 Jenkins Server:

- http://ci.px4.io/
- http://px4-jenkins.dagar.ca:8080/blue/organizations/jenkins/PX4-Autopilot/activity

@dagar What is the difference between them? And why do we need two separate Jenkins server?

Reviewer: It's just an optimization because Jenkins transfers quite a lot of data between the server and runners and it's also a bit more reliable overall. For the hardware test rack each board is Jenkins slave, but it's just a container all on the same physical system with the Jenkins server.

Author: Ah so you mean your Jenkins is the hardware rack testing & px4 Jenkins (CI.px4.io) is for everything else? (Metadata deployment, world magnetic model update, etc)

Reviewer 2: I think more information about test rack and how it runs can be added here. If it is mentioned anywhere in docs a link might suffice

This document outlines how the different parts of the CI system are configured and connected.

## Pull Requests

Automated CI checks are run for every [Pull-Request (PR)](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/pulls).

Most of the test are run using the Github workflows in [.github/workflows](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/tree/main/.github/workflows):

- `compile_nuttx.yml`:
  Builds NuttX flight controller board targets.
  It can detect Flash overflows and code syntax errors,
- `sitl_tests.yml`: 
  Executes [MAVSDK SITL Tests](./integration_testing_mavsdk.md).

>   Detect system-level bugs in the code (e.g. VTOL doesn't return to home)

Reviewer 3: IMO worth expanding a bit here: It runs missions, offboard, failsafes, follow me, etc. The tests are under `test/mavsdk_tests`. They also upload the logs to flight review.

- `mavros_mission_tests.yml`:
  Executes mission plans using MAVROS.
  Detects system level bugs in close, and also verifies compatibility between MAVROS and PX4.
- `checks.yml`:
  Runs various make targets (using `make` command).
  The commands for each targets are documented in the [Makefile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/Makefile)
  - `check_format`: Checks the coding style format using Clang Tidy ?
  - `airframe_metadata`: Builds airframe XML metadata
  - `parameters_metadata`: Builds parameter XML metadata
  - `module_documentation`: Builds module documentation
  - `tests`: Runs unit tests

>   - `tests_coverage`: Runs coverage tests

Reviewer 2: is there a way to check the result of said coverage tests?

Author: Added a link for viewing past runs

  - ... (other auxiliary tests)
- `ekf_functional_change_indicator.yml`: Check if there's any functionality change in EKF ?
- `ekf_update_change_indicator.yml`: Check if there's any functionality change in EKF ?
- `failsafe_sim.yml`: Builds [failsafe simulator](../config/safety_simulation.md)
- `clang-tidy.yml`: Runs Clang Tidy to check if coding style is consistent
- `compile_linux.yml`: Builds linux flight controller board targets

## PX4 Releases/main

A number of additional artifacts are built when changes are made to the `main` branch or to `release/*` branches (any releases).
These are then deployed to other repositories, uploaded to servers, and generally made available to other systems and services that use them.

Release/main actions are managed by the [.github/workflows/deploy_all.yml](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/.github/workflows/deploy_all.yml) workflow.

For each board target, the artifacts built are:

- Parameter metadata (`parameters.*`)
- Events metadata (`events/*.xz`)
- Actuators metadata (`actuators.json*`)

> - Target binary (`*.px4`)

Author: Turns out, they are uploaded via the "PX4_misc/Firmware_s3_deploy_*" pipelines that seems to be triggered manually! (right? @dagar)

https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/pull/2284/files#diff-7a54d71845d3b204f4ac49e9f2f65213d70376270e2856b33257405ca349cd7bR110-R112

> These files are uploaded to the [Amazon S3 bucket server](https://px4-travis.s3.amazonaws.com/).

Author: Note, part where QGC fetches .px4 files from the S3:

https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol/blob/f9f04ecbbdabb7d2a160f7ab9152fbe45ef4d5cb/src/VehicleSetup/FirmwareUpgradeController.cc#L356-L362

Author: Example link: https://px4-travis.s3.amazonaws.com/Firmware/stable/px4_fmu-v5x_default.px4

Author: Also, the mechanism how QGC determines which version is stable, and beta is via this:

https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol/blob/f9f04ecbbdabb7d2a160f7ab9152fbe45ef4d5cb/src/VehicleSetup/FirmwareUpgradeController.cc#L654-L671

Author: Basically thru this link: https://api.github.com/repos/PX4/Firmware/releases

It returns a JSON file that includes the versioning info

- `failsafe_sim/*`: Files for [Failsafe Simulator Interface](../config/safety_simulation.md)

An example commit can be found [here](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/commit/a4ffaf5fc32df8650da614aa3129b3b90794584f).

The PX4 user guide is built when there are any changes to the [PX4-user_guide](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide) repo `main` or `v1.*` branches, including the addition of the metadata above.
This ensures ensures that the "main" version of the documentation is always up to date.

Note that the documentation build is also run using Jenkins CI, and is based on the definition in [PX4-user_guide/Jenkinsfile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/blob/main/Jenkinsfile).

## QGroundControl 

The PX4 firmware uploaded by `deploy_all.yml` is used by QGroundControl for [PX4 Firmware updates](../config/firmware.md) (stable: `release/*` / beta: `main`).
 
The Jenkins server uses the [PX4BuildBot](https://github.com/PX4BuildBot) account to upload the following metadata to QGC whenever there is an update to main or a release branch:

- `airframes.xml`: Airframes metadata describing all supported airframes

> - `parameters.xml`: Parameters metadata describing all supported parameters

Reviewer 3: Correct, but should probably clarify that it copies the metadata into the QGC source tree.

Partially mentioned below, for parameters, most boards use the COMP_METADATA API to get it from the vehicle. And if not from the vehicle, then from S3 (which is pushed by the deploy_all.yml github action). Yes it's chaotic.

Author: Donee

| [PX4/PX4-user_guide](http://ci.px4.io/job/PX4/job/PX4-user_guide/) | Builds the Html version of the user guide from the markdown format and deploys to the web | Updates in `main` (latest) or `v1.*` (past releases) branches | [PX4-user_guide/Jenkinsfile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/blob/main/Jenkinsfile) |

For the full view of all different pipelines, visit [ci.px4.io/](http://ci.px4.io/).

### Hardware testing Jenkins

A Webhook is configured to [px4-jenkins.dagar.ca](http://px4-jenkins.dagar.ca:8080/) for every event of Pushes (new commits, branches) and Pull Requests in PX4-Autopilot repository.

| Pipeline Name | Description | Trigger | Script |
|---|---|---|---|
| [PX4-Autopilot](http://px4-jenkins.dagar.ca:8080/job/PX4-Autopilot/) (On Github shown as **continuous-integration/jenkins/branch**) | Runs hardware test script | Pushes & Pull Requests (all Webhook events) | [.ci/Jenkinsfile-hardware](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/.ci/Jenkinsfile-hardware) |

This CI is crucial for detecting failures in hardware that can't be detected via Software CI tools, such as hardfault, NuttShell, NuttX bugs, etc.

> To view all the past runs of the hardware rack CI, visit [px4-jenkins.dagar.ca](http://px4-jenkins.dagar.ca:8080/job/PX4-Autopilot/).

Author: I've added this table because I thought the list view (still kept, but commented out below) was confusing, would like to know your thoughts on this! @hamishwillee

This ensures ensures that the "main" version of the documentation is always up to date.

Note that the documentation build is also run using Jenkins CI, and is based on the definition in [PX4-user_guide/Jenkinsfile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/blob/main/Jenkinsfile).

## QGroundControl

The PX4 firmware uploaded by Jenkins is used by QGroundControl for [PX4 Firmware updates](../config/firmware.md) (stable: `release/*` / beta: `main`).

The Jenkins server uses the [PX4BuildBot](https://github.com/PX4BuildBot) account to upload the following metadata to QGC whenever there is an update to main or a release branch:

- `airframes.xml`: Airframes metadata describing all supported airframes
- `parameters.xml`: Parameters metadata describing all supported parameters

QGC uses the above information for populating the [airframe selection](../config/airframe.md) page for PX4 and the _default_ parameter metadata information (QGC will use parameter metadata from the vehicle instead if it is available).
An example commit of parameter metadata can be found [here](https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol/commit/7f4f3b6253fe80a881e9a91a1f5b6d960ad11834).

> Note that QGroundControl normally gets metadata for [Events](../concept/events_interface.md#implementation)and [Parameters](../advanced/parameters_and_configurations.md#publishing-parameter-metadata-to-a-gcs) from the vehicle (it is built into the firmware, or a URL is provided in the firmware from which it can be downloaded).

Author: Not sure if it is true to say that 'URL is provided in the firmware from which metadata can be downloaded'? @bkueng

For the full view of all different pipelines, visit [ci.px4.io/](http://ci.px4.io/).

### Hardware testing Jenkins

A Webhook is configured to [px4-jenkins.dagar.ca](http://px4-jenkins.dagar.ca:8080/) for every event of Pushes (new commits, branches) and Pull Requests in PX4-Autopilot repository.

| Pipeline Name | Description | Trigger | Script |
|---|---|---|---|
| [PX4-Autopilot](http://px4-jenkins.dagar.ca:8080/job/PX4-Autopilot/) (On Github shown as **continuous-integration/jenkins/branch**) | Runs hardware test script | Pushes & Pull Requests (all Webhook events) | [.ci/Jenkinsfile-hardware](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/.ci/Jenkinsfile-hardware) |

Hardware rack is composed of actual hardware connected via USB, each connected with separate Jenkins nodes currently as following:

- `cubepilot_cubeorange_test`: Cubepilot CubeOrange
- `cuav_x7pro_test`: CUAV X7 Pro
- `px4_fmu-v4_test`: FMU v4
- `px4_fmu-v4pro_test`: FMU v4 Pro
- `px4_fmu-v5_debug`: FMU v5 with debug flag, prints out debug information
- `px4_fmu-v5_stackcheck`: FMU v5 compiled with stackcheck, detects stack overflow, etc.
- `px4_fmu-v5_test`: FMU v4
- `nxp_fmuk66-v3_test`: FMU k66 v3

> Note that `_test` label for the target means ... (TODO)

Author: @bkueng I actually don't know how "stackcheck", "test", etc labels get incorporated into the build process. What does '_test' postfix do regarding the built target binary?

Reviewer 3: It's just different build variants for selecting a certain sets of modules: the label defines which `.px4board` file is used under the board directory.

Author: Ahaa true, I forgot about that! Thanks for the pointer 👍

It performs the following tests on each build node targets:

- Build: Build bootloader and firmware binary files
- Flash: Flash the hardware via USB, JLink, and other methods (specific to hardware)
- Tests: Various tests regarding sensors, commander module, uorb topics, etc.
- Status: Reboot and check filesystem (/proc, /dev, etc), module, system commands, and do quick IMU calibration
- Print topics: Print out selected set of uORB topic data (for debugging purposes)

This CI is crucial for detecting failures in hardware that can't be detected via Software CI tools, such as hardfault, NuttShell, NuttX bugs, etc.

> For the full test script, visit [.ci/Jenkinsfile-hardware](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/.ci/Jenkinsfile-hardware).

Author: Added general information about the hardware rack here. Anything else you want me to add? @mnumanuyar

# PX4 Continuous Integration / Automation

PX4 has multiple automated CI build that runs to keep different systems in sync. This document describes how they are configured & connected, to hopefully clear-up confusion in how everything is connected!

:::note
CI scripts are subject to change, and the links below may get broken in the future. If that happens, please contribute the fix for the documentation!

> :::

Reviewer 4: FYI You could add this to every bit of docs in the library. Everything is subject to change, and if someone finds something wrong we hope they'll fix it. Why is this special? Deleting.

## PX4-Autopilot Pull Request CI tests
For every [Pull-Request](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/pulls), there are automated CI that checks the PR.
Most of the workflows are done with Github workflows, which can be found [here](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/tree/main/.github/workflows).

- `compile_nuttx.yml`: Builds NuttX flight controller board targets. It can detect Flash overflows and code syntax errors
- `sitl_tests.yml`: Executes [MAVSDK SITL Tests](./integration_testing_mavsdk.md). It can detect functional bugs in the code (e.g. VTOL doesn't return to home)
- `mavros_mission_tests.yml`: Executes Mission plans using MAVROS. It can check for functional compatibility between MAVROS and PX4
- `checks.yml`: Runs various make targets (using `make` command). The commands for each targets are documented in the [Makefile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/Makefile)

>   - `check_format`: Checks the coding style format using Clang Tidy ?

Author: @dagar Is this different from the `clang-tidy.yml` part below?

Reviewer 4: @MaEtUgR This section might be affected by linter changes

Reviewer 5: @hamishwillee Certainly, thanks for the heads-up. We won't change it over night. Style is currently exclusively checked by `astyle`, see https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/3b2d76657312d47e6495736dfd4d694b546497d5/Tools/astyle/fix_code_style.sh#L8-L11

Reviewer 4: OK, so this is good for now. Thanks!

  - `airframe_metadata`: Builds airframe XML metadata
  - `parameters_metadata`: Builds parameter XML metadata
  - `module_documentation`: Builds module documentation
  - `tests`: Runs unit tests
  - `tests_coverage`: Runs coverage tests
  - ... (other auxiliary tests)
- `ekf_functional_change_indicator.yml`: Check if there's any functionality change in EKF ?

> - `ekf_update_change_indicator.yml`: Check if there's any functionality change in EKF ?

Author: I wasn't sure what this really does. @bresch do you have comment on this?

Reviewer 6: The change indicator feeds the data of a log through the estimator and compares the output with the output that we got before the changes (saved in a csv file). It throws an error if the result is numerically different (with some tolerance). This is expected to fail for a functional change but is useful for some pure refactoring work.

Author: Thanks!

This is handled by [this](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/.github/workflows/deploy_all.yml) workflow.

For each board targets, the artifacts built are:
- Parameter metadata (`parameters.*`)
- Events metadata (`events/*.xz`)
- Actuators metadata (`actuators.json*`)
- Target binary (`*.px4`)

Then these files get uploaded to the [Amazon S3 bucket server](https://px4-travis.s3.amazonaws.com/).

### Usage by QGC
These files then get used in QGroundControl for:
- Flashing PX4 binaries (stable: `release/*` / beta: `main`) through Firmware tab
- Downloading & Caching the Events / Actuators / Parameters metadata for boards that doesn't support [MAVLink Component Information service](https://mavlink.io/en/services/component_information.html) based metadata retrieval

Without these artifacts getting uploaded, QGroundControl would quickly go out of sync / won't be able to download & flash target binaries. So this is a crucial part of CI.

## Generic metadata for Documentation & QGC by main branch (Not board specific)
Whenever there are changes to the `main` branch, separately from the `deploy_all.yml` workflow above, Jenkins builds / deploys metadata.

> Jenkins file can be found [here](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/Jenkinsfile).

Reviewer 4: FYI generally better to provide the name of the file path rather than "here". Makes it easier for users to find who are working on their local source doing updates.

### PX4 Documentation update
It uses the [PX4BuildBot](https://github.com/PX4BuildBot) account to upload the following metadata to update the documentation:
- `airframes_reference.md`: Markdown for [Airframes Reference Documentation](../airframes/airframe_reference.md)
- `parameter_reference.md`: Markdown for [Parameter Reference Documentation](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md)
- `modules/*.md`: Markdown for [Modules documentation](../modules/README.md)
- `graph_*.json`: JSON defining uORB Graph, visualized in [uORB Graph](../middleware/uorb_graph.md) page
- `msg_docs/*.md`: Markdown for [uORB Messages documentation](../msg_docs/README.md)
- `failsafe_sim/*`: Files for [Failsafe Simulator Interface](../config/safety_simulation.md)

An example commit can be found [here](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/commit/a4ffaf5fc32df8650da614aa3129b3b90794584f).

> Without these metadata getting pushed, PX4 documentation will go out of sync very quickly! So it's a crucial piece of CI.

Reviewer 4: FYI Everything is a crucial bit of CI. This kind of thing adds words to no value.

# PX4 Continuous Integration

PX4 uses continuous integration (CI) to build and run tests against every pull request (PR) and release, and to generate build artifacts such as firmware, documentation updates, and various metadata files needed by QGroundControl.

The integration system uses GitHub actions and a Jenkins server.
The configuration files for these systems can be found in the [PX4-Autopilot](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot) repo main branch:
- [Jenkinsfile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/Jenkinsfile)
- [.github/workflows/](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/tree/main/.github/workflows).

The Jenkins build status can be viewed in [ci.px4.io:8080/job/PX4/](http://ci.px4.io:8080/job/PX4/)

This document outlines how the different parts of the CI system are configured and connected.

## Pull Requests

> Automated CI checks are fun for every [Pull-Request (PR)](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/pulls).

Author: ```suggestion
Automated CI checks are run for every [Pull-Request (PR)](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/pulls).
```

- `clang-tidy.yml`: Runs Clang Tidy to check if coding style is consistent
- `compile_linux.yml`: Builds linux flight controller board targets

## PX4 Releases/main

A number of additional artifacts are built when changes are made to the `main` branch or to `release/*` branches (any releases).
These are then deployed to other repositories, uploaded to servers, and generally made available to other systems and services that use them.

Release/main actions are managed by the [.github/workflows/deploy_all.yml](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/.github/workflows/deploy_all.yml) workflow.

For each board target, the artifacts built are:

- Parameter metadata (`parameters.*`)
- Events metadata (`events/*.xz`)
- Actuators metadata (`actuators.json*`)
- Target binary (`*.px4`)

These files are uploaded to the [Amazon S3 bucket server](https://px4-travis.s3.amazonaws.com/).

In addition, if there are changes to the `main` branch Jenkins builds / deploys metadata used by QGroundControl and documentation builds, based on the definitions in [PX4-Autopilot/Jenkinsfile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/Jenkinsfile).

## PX4 Documentation

> Jenkins uses the [PX4BuildBot](https://github.com/PX4BuildBot) account to upload the following metadata to the [PX4-user_guide](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide) repo.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Jenkins uses the [PX4BuildBot](https://github.com/PX4BuildBot) account to upload the following metadata to the [PX4-user_guide](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide) repo when the PX4-Autopilot `main` branch is altered.
```

- `airframes_reference.md`: Markdown for [Airframes Reference Documentation](../airframes/airframe_reference.md)
- `parameter_reference.md`: Markdown for [Parameter Reference Documentation](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md)
- `modules/*.md`: Markdown for [Modules documentation](../modules/README.md)
- `graph_*.json`: JSON defining uORB Graph, visualized in [uORB Graph](../middleware/uorb_graph.md) page
- `msg_docs/*.md`: Markdown for [uORB Messages documentation](../msg_docs/README.md)
- `failsafe_sim/*`: Files for [Failsafe Simulator Interface](../config/safety_simulation.md)

> An example commit can be found [here](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/commit/a4ffaf5fc32df8650da614aa3129b3b90794584f).

Author: Shouldn't we mention that this is done by the https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/d6b523b574875a9f640620d1e90c8277fa13781c/Jenkinsfile#L152-L191?

Due to the sentence below, I think people might confuse the Jenkins within the doc with the Jenkins by PX4 (which is the one used for this case for documentation metadata update) @hamishwillee

Author: Also, we can mention that it only gets triggered when the `main` branch gets altered.

Reviewer 4: I think it would be pretty hard to be confused. However I have further re-written it to be even more clear.

> PX4 documentation is built separately using a separate Jenkins process following the above update (or any other other updates).
> The PX4 CI build process is defined in: [PX4-user_guide/Jenkinsfile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/blob/main/Jenkinsfile).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The PX4 user guide is built when there are any changes to the [PX4-user_guide](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide) repo `main` or `v1.*` branches, including the addition of the metadata above.
This ensures ensures that the "main" version of the documentation is always up to date.

Note that the documentation build is also run using Jenkins CI, and is based on the definition in [PX4-user_guide/Jenkinsfile](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/blob/main/Jenkinsfile).
```

 
The Jenkins server uses the [PX4BuildBot](https://github.com/PX4BuildBot) account to upload the following metadata to QGC whenever there is an update to main or a release branch:

- `airframes.xml`: Airframes metadata describing all supported airframes
- `parameters.xml`: Parameters metadata describing all supported parameters

QGC uses the above information for populating the [airframe selection](../config/airframe.md) page for PX4 and the _default_ parameter metadata information (QGC will use parameter metadata from the vehicle instead if it is available).
An example commit of parameter metadata can be found [here](https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol/commit/7f4f3b6253fe80a881e9a91a1f5b6d960ad11834).

Note that QGroundControl normally gets metadata for [Events](../concept/events_interface.md#implementation)and [Parameters](../advanced/parameters_and_configurations.md#publishing-parameter-metadata-to-a-gcs) from the vehicle (it is built into the firmware, or a URL is provided in the firmware from which it can be downloaded).

## Other

> Jenkins also updates the PX4 ROS messages repository [PX4/px4_msgs](https://github.com/PX4/px4_msgs) anduploads the metadata to the [Amazon S3 bucket server](https://px4-travis.s3.amazonaws.com/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Jenkins also updates the PX4 ROS messages repository [PX4/px4_msgs](https://github.com/PX4/px4_msgs) and uploads the metadata to the [Amazon S3 bucket server](https://px4-travis.s3.amazonaws.com/).
```

> Jenkins also updates the PX4 ROS messages repository [PX4/px4_msgs](https://github.com/PX4/px4_msgs) and uploads the metadata to the [Amazon S3 bucket server](https://px4-travis.s3.amazonaws.com/).

Reviewer 4: "uploads the metadata to the [Amazon S3 bucket server](https://px4-travis.s3.amazonaws.com/)." - what metadata? YOu already covered a lot here, is this metadata something associated with px4_msgs?

Author: Ooh I think so, I didn't cover it specifically but can add that info as well

Reviewer 4: If it is metadata associated with ROS 2  messages then "probably not". The only dependency now from PX4 in ROS2 is the PX4/px4_msgs. There used to be more stuff, but XRCE-DDS means it isn't needed any more.
